+++
title = "Serve a Zola site using Caddy"
date = "2025-03-03"
template = "page.html"
description = ""

[taxonomies]
tags = [ "tools", "caddy", "http", "zola", "blog" ]
+++ 

To serve a Zola site using Caddy, simply ==configure Caddy to serve the static files generated by your Zola build process within the designated root directory==, leveraging Caddy's "file_server" directive to deliver the static content directly to visitors; essentially treating your Zola site like any other static website. 

Key steps:

- **Build your Zola site:** Run your Zola build command to generate the static HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files in the designated output directory.
- **Caddy configuration:**
    - Create a Caddyfile: 


```json
yourdomain.com {
    root /path/to/zola/output_directory
    file_server
    gzip
}
```

**Explanation**:
    
- `yourdomain.com`: Replace with your actual domain name.
- `root /path/to/zola/output_directory`: Point this to the directory where your Zola build generated static files. 
- `file_server`: Tells Caddy to serve static files from the specified root directory. 
- `gzip`: Optionally enable Gzip compression for better performance. 

Alternatively run a different http service and just have caddy reverse proxy it. Something like :

```
# reverse proxy approach. if service is running locally on http
blog.cielago.xyz {
   reverse_proxy 127.0.0.1:8090
} 
```

**Start Caddy:**
    
Run the Caddy command to start the server, which will now serve your Zola site using the configured domain. 
    
```bash
systemctl start caddy.service
```

Benefits of using Caddy for Zola:

**Automatic HTTPS:**
    
Caddy automatically handles Let's Encrypt certificate management, providing secure HTTPS connections by default. 
    
**Simple configuration:**
    
    The Caddyfile syntax is considered user-friendly, making it easy to set up a Zola site. 
    
**Performance optimizations:**
    
    Caddy can automatically optimize static file delivery with features like caching and compression.

## Server commands

(re)start the caddy service

```bash
systemctl restart caddy.service
```

Tail the logs

```bash
journalctl -xeu caddy.service
```

## References

- [How to serve a static site using Caddy](https://ellen.dev/serve-static-site-using-caddy.html). A more detailed explanation.
- [Caddy File Docs](https://caddyserver.com/docs/caddyfile)
- [Caddy homepage](https://caddyserver.com/)